there are one too many seo tools it can
be overwhelming so today i'm gonna break
down my favorite four hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm gonna break
down my four favorite seo tools and the
ones that are a time waste
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
so let's get first started with the four
that i like
number one of course uber suggests it's
one of my own tools
i built it not because i want to
recreate the wheel and build a seo tool
like everyone else i did it because
a lot of the seo tools out there
they're expensive who wants to spend a
hundred dollars a month for seo tool so
i built something that's free sure
there's premium versions of uber says
but you can do a lot for free from
keyword ideas to top pages by traffic to
backlink opportunities what i really
love the most in uber says there's a few
features and i'm gonna break them down
is whenever you're doing keyword
research in the keyword ideas report you
can click on this button page one
ranking potential and you put in your
url and it'll tell you all the keywords
that you can rank page one on based on
your domain authority your on-page seo
how long your site's been around so
it'll tell you what you actually have a
shot to rank for right now right and
that's great because seo is a long name
but who doesn't want to see more
short-term results the other feature
that i really love in
ubersuggest is a competitor analysis
i can put in my domain name and my
competitor's domain name and it'll show
me all the keywords that they rank for
that i don't rank for
and it'll also show me all the keywords
that uh you know i'm ranking for that
they're also ranking for and then you
want to check out what are the keywords
that they're ranking for that you're not
even targeting because that's a keyword
gap that's your opportunities another
feature that i love in new process is
the backlinks opportunity report see
when you're doing link outreach if you
just hit up sites asking them to link to
you the chances that they're going to
link back to you is slim to none but
in the backlink opportunity report it
shows you he links your competitors and
multiplayer competitors so i can put in
my own domain name as well as a few
competitors and if someone's linking to
three of my competitors you know that if
they link to three of my competitors
they don't mind linking to other
websites in my space so if i take the
time and hit them up there's a great
chance that they'll link back to me
the next tool i like is clickful it's
used to test your title tags and your
meta description this is great because a
lot of times you can boost your rankings
not by building more links but just
getting more clicks if so everyone does
a google search for a keyword like
dog shoes and they click on the second
result instead of the first result it
tells google that no one wants a first
result they prefer the second result and
they'll switch the rankings
the next tool i like google search
console it's free you can discover
keywords that you need to double down
here's what i mean by that go to google
search console see the pages that are
getting traffic look for the keywords
that you're ranking for at the bottom of
page one
on page two page three and see if you're
using those keywords within your content
if not if those keywords are relevant
integrate them it'll boost your rankings
for those terms it helps you double down
and you should see results within 30
days of course one of my last favorite
tools is google trends it allows you to
explore new opportunities and find
a lot of great keywords and categories
to go after especially what's trending
in what's going on upward trend versus a
downward trend because you want to go
after more keywords in terms of an upper
trend
as for time waste
you know when you look at very technical
seo auditing tools there's a lot of them
out there it's only worth it if you have
huge websites with thousands of images
complex internal linking structures
unless you have a critical technical seo
problem most of the time you won't need
to be running lots of crazy in-depth
audits you can do a lot for free within
just the uber says site audit report now
think about the roi of your efforts
what's working best in your seo don't
spend time and money on all the tools
and activities that aren't really
yielding those results so when you're
looking at a lot of the tools out there
i'm not trying to point any names it's
not about looking at a hundred different
reports or features if you're a big
enterprise company you need specific
reports to solve specific problems that
no one else has by all means use them
but for most your day-to-day stuff
you're not going to be using those
features you're just going to be paying
for stuff that you don't use so instead
i want you to focus on what's driving
your roi go look in your google
analytics go look at what's driving the
conversions your goals what content what
channels focus more on that than wasting
your time looking at 20 tools it's not
just about the cost cost isn't the issue
of the tools the real issue with using
too many tools is it's a big time suck
if you spent your time on what's
generating your roi you'll make more
money
if you need help with your marketing
check out my ad agency np digital if you
enjoyed the video like it share you have
questions leave a comment thank you for
watching